I want you to notice something
about reachable keys,
it is brute force, it is ugly code.
But I want you to notice something
about the output of reachable keys.
Does it ever change, depending on
anything about the user's actions?
Is there anything about
the user's actions that affects
the outcome of the reachable
keys function?
The answer is no.
In fact, what we are doing is
brute force computing something
which is already pre-known by
the geometry of the board.
You with me?
Why don't we just make a data structure
that has the reachableKeys in it,
instead of making a data structure that is
the dial pad that we then have to go and
compute some geometry information from?
Why don't we just start with the data
structure that is the list of
reachableKeys?
It's fixed information,
it's gonna be very easy to compute.
Why recompute it every single
time we hover over a key?
Everybody follow that?
I'm gonna show you how
easy it is to precompute.
I'm gonna copy that code, and
I think only that code, let me make sure.
Yeah, only that code I'm gonna copy.
Just gonna drag over my
little console here,
so we have a little bit more
space to put some code in.
I'm gonna put that code in here.
It's a little harder for you to read down
there, but maybe I can zoom this in, so
it's a little easier for you to type.
All I'm going to do is create a for
loop that calls this function once for
each of the possible keys.
And I'm gonna call that
nearbykeys for (let i =
0; i <= 9; i ++)
.
This for loop is simply going
to call that function once for
each of the possible digits, 0 through 9.
Whatever it returns, we're just gonna
push it into this nearbyKeys array.
And then just for good measure,
I'm gonna pretty print out the nearbyKeys,
you'll see why here in a moment.
So we run this code.
I meant to do a JSON string, sorry.
Console.log(JSON.stringify), was
what I meant to pretty print it.
And now, I'm simply going to copy-paste.
I'm gonna copy that and
I go back to the code editor,
and I'm gonna delete all of that.
And give me just a moment
to manually type all this.
I could probably do this with
a regular expression, but
I'm gonna type this out even quicker than
I could write the regular expression.
The truth is in about the same amount
of time as we wrote the code and
then wrote the code to drive it, we could
have just manually written this out.
You could have just looked
at the board and said,
I know if I'm on key 0,
I can go to key 4 and 6.
And if I'm on key 1, I can go to 6 and 8.
And if I'm on keys 2, I can go to 7 and 9.
You could have just written this out,
probably a lot quicker than it took for
us to go through writing the code.
But I did that because I want to reinforce
the point that in many algorithmic
problems that we tackle,
there is fixed known upfront stuff and
you should precompute as
much of that as you can.
You should not defer until
the run time that which can be
figured out pre-run time.
There is absolutely nothing about
that knowledge of those nearby
keys that needs to be recomputed,
and so we should precompute it.
And it turns out that the nearbyKeys
is gonna be a much better
data structure for
us to start from than the data path.
We do still need that reachable keys
function, because again, it's a,
Public API method but look what it
now does, instead of all that other
junk that it was doing, now it just
simply says nearbyKeys of startingDigit.
That's a lot better, right?
How many people like that solution better?
If you liked the previous one,
no shame, but I don't understand why,
just as a little bit of a heads up,
because I like this code better and
because it gets rid of
a bunch of clutter in here.
I jumped ahead a little bit,
this optimization that I just made
wasn't until one of our later branches.
So in the branches when you div,
you'll see that I still left in that
older version of reachableKeys.
I just jumped ahead because I didn't
wanna keep seeing all that ugly code.